- [Tim] So far you've
learned how to create,
read and write files and
data sources using Java.nio.
Now sometimes you don't
want to read from a file,
or write to a file, you
might want to copy files,
delete files, move them,
so on and so forth.
In other words, you wanna
work with the file system.
In this case, Java.nio has you covered,
in fact there's a whole package dedicated
to working with the file
system, called java.nio.file.
So what we're gonna do is start by taking
a look at the path interface, which is
what you'll use to identify
a file on the file system.
Now we've already used paths,
previously in this section of
the course, if you recall we created them
when we wanted to use Java.io classes
to read and write files,
but we called a method,
such as files.newBufferedWriter
so that the buffered writer
would be backed by a
Java.nio buffer and channel.
So what actually is a path?
Well now that you're
familiar with the concept
of a file path, because
you use them all the time.
Now if you open the file
explorer on your system,
you'll see a bunch of root folders,
usually hard drives,
peripheral drives like DVD
or Blu-ray drives, external drives,
you know, thumb drives, et cetera.
Each of these top-level drives
is a root node in a path.
For example, in Windows,
the directory C:\ is
the root node for the C drive.
Now each folder, which is also
referred to as a directory,
is also a node in a
path, and then of course,
there's the file itself.
Now if you've downloaded
a file and placed it in
the C:\downloads directory,
again on Windows,
then the file path has three nodes.
One for C:\, one for
the downloads directory,
and then one for the file itself.
So this path is unique, you
can't have two files with
the same name in the same directory,
because each file is
identified by its path.
For the downloads example, if you named
the file you downloaded
data.txt, then the path
would be C:\downloads\file.txt,
again, on Windows.
So you wouldn't be able
to place a second file
called file.txt into that same directory.
So the character used to
separate the directory names
in a path is called the delimiter,
and it can differ between
operating systems.
For example, in Windows the
delimiter is the backslash,
but on Unix and Mac the
delimiter is the forward slash.
So everything we discuss
about paths applies
to files and directories.
To keep things simple, we
won't always refer to both,
but you can create a path
for a file or a directory.
Now sometimes it won't
make sense to use a path
to a directory for example,
when you wanna create a file,
but other times it'll only make sense
to use a path to a directory.
It will depend on what you want to do.
Now just keep in mind that paths can refer
to either a file or a directory.
Now file paths can be
absolute or relative.
So the path C:\downloads\file.txt,
well that's an absolute path
because it starts at a root node,
but the path photos\vacation\mountain.jpg,
well that's a relative path
because it doesn't specify
a root node at the start.
In other words, it doesn't
contain enough information
to identify the file, so in other words,
it would have to be
combined with another path
that does contain a root node.
Now when using relative
paths in applications,
there's usually the concept of a current,
or working directory, that you
can combine with a relative path.
For example, when you
are running applications
that used path, we didn't
specify the entire path,
we did something like the
following, on the next slide.
You can see there we
didn't actually specify
the root node, so the string data.txt in
that current example doesn't
give enough information
about where the file is located,
but you will notice that we're calling
the FileSystems.getDefault method first,
and then the getPath method.
So what's happening here is
that the getDefault method call
returns a file system object with
a working directory set to
the current user directory.
So when running an application
from within IntelliJ,
the current user directory is
the IntelliJ project directory
and so that's the working directory
for the file system object.
Now the working directory
is then combined with
the path that you pass
to the getPath call,
and that's why the files are created then
in the IntelliJ projects directory.
So instead of what we did
in the previous example,
we could have done something similar
to what you can see on
the screen there now,
and we've got two backslashes there,
because we're using a backslash,
we have to escape that so
that Java actually knows
we're referring to a backslash.
But the point is here
though, we could have changed
the scenario and used
Paths, and then called
the .get method with
an absolute path call,
instead of what we did there
in the previous example.
But notice here that we're
using the Paths class,
which has got an s at the end
when we call the get method.
So there's only two
methods in the Paths class,
and both of them return
a path based on a string.
But anyway, enough talk,
let's now jump back in
to IntelliJ, and we can play
around with paths a bit.
All right, so what I'm gonna do first
is create a new project, New, Project,
and I'm gonna click on Java, Next,
and we'll create the
template like we normally do,
and I'm gonna call this
one, unsurprisingly, Paths,
and I'll just save it in the
right place on my computer,
and I'm just gonna replace
the current project
with this new one.
Okay, get a bit more screen real estate.
All right, so what we're gonna
do is create three files.
All right, so let's go ahead
and create the first one.
So we're actually gonna do
this in the current path.
At the moment you can see
the path here is set to
the Paths folder on my Mac,
so just within that path,
making a right-click on the Paths itself,
click on New, and click on File.
We're gonna call this first
one WorkingDirectory.txt,
and I'm gonna copy some text in there
that we're going to use, and this text
is available in the resources
section in this video.
That'll do for that, so
that's the first one.
Next we wanna create a directory within
the project directory called Files.
So I'm gonna come back
here to the Paths again,
right-click, click on New,
this time select Folder,
and I'm gonna call the
new folder name files,
and then I'm going to
right-click on the files folder,
click on New, click on File,
and we're gonna call this
new file, Subdirectory.txt,
and you can see we've now got
a file within that folder,
and I'm going to paste some text,
again, in the resources
section, and by the way,
folder and directory are
interchangeable terms.
Depending on your operating
system you might be used
to calling it directory, or a folder,
essentially it's the same thing,
which you're probably already aware of.
All right, now in the third example
what we're going to do is
we're gonna create a file,
but this time we're gonna
create it in another folder
that's outside of the entire
path for our current project,
and to do that I'm going
to go to the folder,
click on Reveal in
Finder again, and again,
that would be something different
on your operating system,
but essentially that's the
folder that's containing
our files, and you can see
we've got WorkingDirectory,
we've also got this files directory.
So I'm gonna actually move up
one level into my folder there
and I'm gonna put the file in
there, but the way to do that,
I'm gonna take a copy of
this WorkingDirectory.
You do something similar on your computer,
and I will go up a level
and I'm gonna copy that.
So I've now got this WorkingDirectory.txt,
but I'm gonna call it something else.
I'm gonna click on that, and
I'm gonna call it OutThere.txt.
So it's actually not in the
path at all for IntelliJ,
and I've just double-clicked that,
you'll open that in whatever
editor you've actually got,
and I'm going to copy some text, again,
that's available in the resources section,
paste that in there,
and then I'll save it.
So again, you'll just save
it in whatever text editor
if you're not using a Mac.
So at this point now we've
got three files, we've got
this OutThere.txt that's
outside of the project path.
You can see in this case,
it's one folder above
the Paths folder, and we'll go into
the Paths folder for our IntelliJ project.
We've got WorkingDirectory,
then the files subdirectory,
and then the file Subdirectory.txt.
All right, so back to IntelliJ,
and obviously we can't
see the OutThere.txt
because it's outside of the project path.
So how do we access these?
Well let's close down these files first,
and let's actually
start writing some code.
So I've gotta build some paths
now to access these files,
we'll start with a try with resources,
so it's gonna be try BufferedReader,
fileReader is equal to Files.
Actually what we'll do
instead of doing that there,
let's actually create a static method.
So I would go private
static void printFile,
it'll accept a parameter
for a path, Path path,
and I'll make sure we're using
the Java.nio import, which we are,
and we'll run it through our
try with resources in there.
So try with resources,
with a left parenthesis,
BufferedReader fileReader
is equal to Files,
java.nio.file,
.newBufferedReader and path being
the argument that was
passed to this method.
In terms of the code, we're
gonna start with a String line,
then we'll do while, two parentheses,
line equals fileReader.readLine.
All that's not equal to null,
and we want one parentheses
here, after the readLine method,
one extra one I should say,
and one to close off the statement.
Then we're just going to print out
the output, so print line,
and then outside of this,
we're gonna catch any IOExceptions we get.
IOException e, print e.getMessage,
and then let's do an e.printStackTrace.
And I'm getting this error
about Try-with-resources
not supported at this language level.
Let's kind of right-click that,
click on Open Module
Settings, go to Project
and make sure that I've
got JDK 8 selected there,
click on OK, and that
should keep things happy,
keeps Java happy now.
All right, so that's the
method now that's going
to basically read the contents of a file
and output them on the screen.
Nothing particularly
hard to understand there,
that's all pretty straightforward.
So the method opens with a BufferedReader,
then uses the
BufferedReader.readLine method
to read and print each line until
it reaches the end of the file.
So let's try this now, we'll try this with
the WorkingDirectory file first,
and I should actually rename that,
because it's not WorkingDirectory.txt,
WorkingDirectoryFile
would be more appropriate,
so let's just rename
that while we're here.
Refactor, Rename,
WorkingDirectoryFile.txt, that's better,
and the same for this one,
just while I remember it.
Refactor, Rename, SubdirectoryFile, okay.
All right, so let's start with trying
to read this WorkingDirectoryFile.
So to do that we're just gonna
type Path path is equal to,
that's gonna be
FileSystems.getDefault().getPath,
this is a relative path, and that's gonna
be WorkingDirectoryFile.txt,
so we wanna get it exactly
the file name we've got stored
in our root project folder.
Then let's actually call
our method printFile(path).
So what we're doing
here is creating a path
the same way we've done previously,
and then calling the
printFile method with it.
Now since this file is
in the working directory,
we only have to pass the file
name to the getPath method.
So in other words, we're just
specifying a relative path
but we'll run the application
to confirm it works,
and I'll just move this
down to the bottom,
and you can just ignore
this warning on the screen
by the way, that's an issue at the moment
with the Mac and the
particular version of the JDK.
I'm hoping that they'll correct that soon,
the research that I've done has told me
that they are working on a fix for
that in a future version of the JDK,
but the moment in time,
that's not actually fixed.
So it just gives you a
bit of a warning here
when you run a programme, on Mac
only, but we can ignore that.
But the point here is though,
file with the working
directory is output, and that's
the same content, so clearly
that's actually working,
and it's read that file successfully.
All right, so far so good, we're able
to read that file correctly.
Let's now try putting the contents of
the file in the files subdirectory.
I'm gonna start by typing
Path, call this one filePath
is equal to FileSystems,
again, .getDefault().getPath,
and let's type in the name Subdirectory,
and get your capitalization correct there,
and actually what I've done is, I now got
that exactly the same, that's
good, and then we'll do
a printFile filePath, and
if we actually run that...
You can see that we've
got an exception there,
and you can see the error's telling us,
"NoSuchFileException:
SubdirectoryFile.txt."
So that's thrown when
the line that creates
the BufferedReader in the
printFile method was executed.
In this case the file wasn't
found, or couldn't be found
because we didn't build
the path correctly.
When we only specify a file
name as we've done here,
the string you provide
to the getPath method
is combined with the
FileSystems object's default,
or working directory, to come
up with an absolute path.
In this case though,
the working directory is
the project directory, which
of course isn't the folder,
or directory that contains the
file we're trying to look at.
So since the file isn't located
in the working directory,
we have to provide more
information to the getPath method,
and we can do that by
passing a second parameter
to the overloaded getPath
method to achieve that.
So the way to do that
is we come back here to
the getPath call, and the
first argument will be files,
being the name of the subfolder,
then the second argument
we leave as it is,
which is the name of the file.
All right, so we try running
that, and this time we're able
to get it, "File within subdirectory,"
as you can see here, this output.
And that obviously corresponds to
the output that's in the
file, so far so good.
Now if the file has two or
three subdirectories deep,
then you'll add each
subdirectory as a parameter
in the order that you want
them to appear in the path,
and you can also pass
everything as a single string,
and we'll see an example
of that a little bit later.
All right, so now just
before I end the video,
let's print the contents
of the OutThere.txt file.
Now since the file is located outside
the working directory, we can't call
the FileSystems.getDefault
and then getPath method,
instead what we're gonna do is use
the Paths.get method and
specify the absolute path.
So we can do that by typing,
or we use the filePath,
let's just reuse that again.
So filePath is equal to Paths,
notice it's Paths and not Path this time,
.get, and you'll need to actually put in
the exact location where that file is.
In my case, if I go back
to my Finder, we can see
that I have to actually
specify quite a long path,
but I've also got the path up here
that I can actually use as well.
So I'm gonna do that, knowing that I need
to specify the folder, JavaPrograms,
and then the name of the file,
but you'll substitute it to whatever
is appropriate for your operating system.
So in my case, it's gonna be
/Volumes/Production/Courses
/Programs/JavaPrograms, so we're now at
the folder where that file is,
and then I need to also
put another slash there,
and put in the name of the actual file.
So in my case, we called it,
if you go back to that
folder, JavaPrograms,
and that's the name of the
file there you'll just take
a copy of, and I'm gonna
paste that to the end there.
So that's the path on a Mac, if you're on
a Windows machine, if you put the file,
say, in the examples folder,
you might do something
like D:\\, remember you've gotta escape
if you're using backslashes,
so you put two backslashes
for the path on Windows,
and it might be D:\\
as you can see there, Examples\\,
and then OutThere.txt, that was the name.
So that would be if you got your file on
the D drive in the Examples subfolder,
and the file's called OutThere.txt.
That's how you do it on
Windows, but in my case I'm on
a Mac so that's the right format for me.
All right, so now that we've got that,
then we just wanna print it
out, so printFile filePath,
so let's actually run
that and see if it works.
And you can see, here we've got,
"File in some random
location on the file system,"
which is exactly what we want there,
and if I go back and have a look at that,
File in some random
location on the file system,
so clearly it's reading
from the right file.
All right, so let's finish the video here,
in the next video we'll talk a bit more
about alternatives to
retrieving the working directory
and the subdirectory using
the Paths.get method.
I'll see you in the next video.